Operating Systems PA3

Sheehan Toufiq

1.2:

Q1. The "total" at the top is the number of disk blocks taken by the directory.

Q2. The 2 show the number of hard links for the file. The reason there are 2 is that when unix creates a new folder, there are 2 links, '.' and '..'. The '.' link is the relative reference for the current directory, while the '..' link is the relative reference for the parent directory.

Q3. The number now has changed to 3. This is because there is a new link inside the directory which is the new file.

Q4. Now there are 5 links. This is because the new folder has 2 additional links '.' and '..'.

Q5. The original file does not show any indication of having a link, however the symbolic links have arrows pointed to the original file it is linked to. Same with the the directory, only the link shows where it is pointed to. Making a link that doesn't exist is successful, however since there is no file the link doesn't work properly. Yet the link still shows that it is pointing to the nonexistent file. A file can be removed successfully, yet the link still shows that it is pointing to a nonexistent file.

Q6. If file1 already exists it will not allow you to create a soft link to because the link is an existing file. However if you try this after removing file1 (I had a file1 before), It will create a soft link named file1 to file1. However if I try to "cat" or "touch" the file, it tells me there are "Too many levels of symbolic links".

Q7. This time a hard link is created. However the link does not point to the file it is linked to.

Q8. For hard links it allows me to run the chmod ad touch commands. However if I try to run either with file1 and the symbolic link file1, then it tells me there are too many levels of symbolic links.

Q9. There is no real way to find which is a hard link. However you can run "ls -i" to see the inode number, then you can run "find <filesystemroot> -inum <inode>" to find all files with the given inode.

Q10. When removing the file, the file is removed. However now the hard link will not work properly.

Q11. When trying to make a hard link to a directory, it won't let you. The output says that it is a directory. When trying to make a hard link to a file that doesn't exist, it outputs that there is no such file or directory